README.md, before:

# Backend - Basic

Basic backend. It provides the API to be accessed by frontends.

Designed to follow the closest as possible the JSON version of [Delft-FEWS API](https://publicwiki.deltares.nl/display/FEWSDOC/FEWS+PI+REST+Web+Service) so that they are exchangeable.

Current implementation available at [https://hydro-web.herokuapp.com/](https://hydro-web.herokuapp.com/).

Developed using Django REST framework on Python 3.8.8 Linux. Also tested on Python 3.7.6 Windows 10.

## Setting up basic dev environment

The packages required by this project are described in the classical *requirements.txt* file.

It is highly recommended that you create a new python environment to work in your development. Multiple python package managers provide such a functionality.

If you are using only **venv**, the steps for (1) creating a new environment named `backend-basic_fedora`, (2) entering the environment * and (3) installing the packages needed are:

    $ python -m venv backend-basic_fedora
	$ source [folder_path]/venvs/backend-basic_fedora/bin/activate
	(backend-basic_fedora) $ pip install -r requirements.txt

*: second step is given for Linux environments. Windows and Mac OS may have different command styles

If you are using **conda** and **pip** on Linux, the same steps would be:

    $ conda create -n django_frontend_3.8 python=3.8
    $ conda activate django_frontend_3.8
    $ while read requirement; do conda install --yes $requirement; done < requirements.txt
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt

## Endpoints already implemented

They are defined in the *api_rest/urls.py* file.

### http://.../v1/region

Returns the first Region document. It is supposed to be the only one of the database.

### http://.../v1/locations

Returns all available locations.

An endpoint with additional filters is yet to be implemented.

### http://.../v1/filters

Returns all available filters in the database.

### http://.../v1/filter/*<id\>*

Return the filter that has id=*<id\>*. Id is an integer.

### http://.../v1/timeseries

List all timeseries in the database.

*TODO:* These timeseries should be provided **without** the *events* fields.

### http://.../v1/timeseries/*<attributes\>*

Retrieve one entire timeseries with given *<attributes\>*, including the *events* field.

*TODO:* Not implemented yet. 

## Deploying

As a typical Django project, we need to run:

	$ python manage.py makemigrations
	$ python manage.py migrate

To set up our database to match the designed models.

But just before running the `migrate` the line:

	isMigrate = False

in the file `crud/models.py` must change to:

	isMigrate = True

and, the line:

	MongoClient.HOST = "mongodb+srv://guest:noPass@cluster0.4kqxi.mongodb.net/"

is the file `api_rest/settings.py` so that the user `guest` (and its respective password) is changed to an user with writing permissions in the target database.

### Error: Not implemented alter command for SQL ALTER TABLE "..." ...

If you get this error after changing a *Collection* structure, try using the command:

    $ python manage.py migrate --fake crud [migration_id]

In which ```migration_id``` can be found in the aforementioned error message in:

    Running migrations:
     Applying crud.[migration_id]...


## Populating database

Please refer to the *README.md* in *crud/fixtures/*.


## About this development branch version

It is set up to be deployed on Heroku. Thus, before submitting to main branch, Heroku-specific elements must be removed.

They are:

- `django-heroku==0.3.1` dependency *@requirements.txt*
- `import django_heroku` line *@backend-basic/settings.py*
- `django_heroku.settings(locals())` line *@backend-basic/settings.py*

It was developed following the instructions provided [here](https://bezkoder.com/django-mongodb-crud-rest-framework/).

Commit message:

Improves timeseries endpoints
Timeseries endpoints now accept filter and location as select attributes.

API modules now reflect changes in the data structure from last commit.

Pending:

1. URGENT: Fix CORS;

2. Implement the 'fixture_cleaner-intermediate-files.py' script;

3. Implement procedures to import geojson data.

README.md, after:

# Backend - Basic

Basic backend. It provides the API to be accessed by frontends.

Designed to follow the closest as possible the JSON version of [Delft-FEWS API](https://publicwiki.deltares.nl/display/FEWSDOC/FEWS+PI+REST+Web+Service) so that they are exchangeable.

Current implementation available at [https://hydro-web.herokuapp.com/](https://hydro-web.herokuapp.com/).

Developed using Django REST framework on Python 3.8.8 Linux. Also tested on Python 3.7.6 Windows 10.

## Setting up basic dev environment

The packages required by this project are described in the classical *requirements.txt* file.

It is highly recommended that you create a new python environment to work in your development. Multiple python package managers provide such a functionality.

If you are using only **venv**, the steps for (1) creating a new environment named `backend-basic_fedora`, (2) entering the environment * and (3) installing the packages needed are:

    $ python -m venv backend-basic_fedora
	$ source [folder_path]/venvs/backend-basic_fedora/bin/activate
	(backend-basic_fedora) $ pip install -r requirements.txt

*: second step is given for Linux environments. Windows and Mac OS may have different command styles

If you are using **conda** and **pip** on Linux, the same steps would be:

    $ conda create -n django_frontend_3.8 python=3.8
    $ conda activate django_frontend_3.8
    $ while read requirement; do conda install --yes $requirement; done < requirements.txt
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt

## Endpoints already implemented

They are defined in the *api_rest/urls.py* file.

### http://.../v1/region

Returns the first Region document. It is supposed to be the only one of the database.

### http://.../v1/locations

Returns all available locations.

An endpoint with additional filters is yet to be implemented.

### http://.../v1/filters

Returns all available filters in the database.

The filters returned don't have geojson polygon data associated to it.

Should be used for listing available options only.

### http://.../v1/filter/*<id\>*

Return the filter with id=*<id\>*.

It contains the geojson polygon data.

### http://.../v1/timeseries

List all timeseries in the database that attend some parameters.

When only the mandatory parameter is given, only the metadata of the timeseries is returned. If additional parameters are given, the inner data is also provided.

Example: ```http://.../v1/timeseries/filter=alpha&location=beta```

Mandatory parameter:

- **filter \*:** Filter Id

Optional parameters:

- **location:** Location Id.


## Deploying

As a typical Django project, we need to run:

	$ python manage.py makemigrations
	$ python manage.py migrate

To set up our database to match the designed models.

But just before running the `migrate` the line:

	isMigrate = False

in the file `crud/models.py` must change to:

	isMigrate = True

and, the line:

	MongoClient.HOST = "mongodb+srv://guest:noPass@cluster0.4kqxi.mongodb.net/"

is the file `api_rest/settings.py` so that the user `guest` (and its respective password) is changed to an user with writing permissions in the target database.

### Error: Not implemented alter command for SQL ALTER TABLE "..." ...

If you get this error after changing a *Collection* structure, try using the command:

    $ python manage.py migrate --fake crud [migration_id]

In which ```migration_id``` can be found in the aforementioned error message in:

    Running migrations:
     Applying crud.[migration_id]...


## Populating database

Please refer to the *README.md* in *crud/fixtures/*.


## About this development branch version

It is set up to be deployed on Heroku. Thus, before submitting to main branch, Heroku-specific elements must be removed.

They are:

- `django-heroku==0.3.1` dependency *@requirements.txt*
- `import django_heroku` line *@backend-basic/settings.py*
- `django_heroku.settings(locals())` line *@backend-basic/settings.py*

It was developed following the instructions provided [here](https://bezkoder.com/django-mongodb-crud-rest-framework/).
